So let's touch another file here,
file.txt.
Something you'll see people
do is they'll say sudo chmod,
and then you'll see 777,
which is super random,
I understand that but
let's talk about 777.
I'm not encouraging you to do it this way.
I'm just going to tell you that
you're going to find a lot of stack
overflow answers that have people that
tell you that yeah, just to put 777 there.
It's a very shorthand way of
doing what I showed you before,
which is u equals rgw or was it,
rwx, g equals rwx, o equals rwx.
These two lines are totally equivalent.
So what this number represents,
each number represents,
the first one represents the users,
the second one represents the groups and
the last one represents the o
the other people and they use math.
So let me just check here, I have to
look at the math every single time.
You add four to the number if
you want read permissions,
you add two to the number for
write permissions and
one to the number for execute permissions.
So if I went in here and
did 66, I'm not gonna do 667,
some people have a problem with
that number, what would this be?
This would be the user can read and
write, the group can read and
write, and
everyone else can read, write and
execute which basically
means everyone else, right?
Or if I did 700,
that's one that you'll actually will see.
It means that just the user can read,
write and execute and
no one else has any permission.
So let's let's just do that and
see what that looks like.
So notice file.txt here can be read,
written or
executed by Ubuntu and
no one else can do anything to the file,
not even people in the group, right?
Or if I did 600,
that would be just the user can read and
write, cuz a text file is not executable.
So they have read write or 640,
that's another one you'll see as well.
The group can read but
can't write it, or 664,
I think you're getting the point,
though, right?
That you use that kind of like
math to to set the permissions.
Now, why did they do that?
It's because computer scientists are lazy
and I guess have good memories and
wanted to do a little bit more math,
right?
Because I guess it's too burdensome
to write out u equals rg or whatever.
I guess that's the point is I can't even
remember and I was just talking about it.
So that's why you see 777.
That's basically saying anyone
can do anything to this file
whenever they want to.
So it's not usually the best idea to
say 777 on a file because that's a very
insecure practice, but
that's why you'll see it.
It's because it's the easy thing to do,
even if it's not the right thing to do.
And then the last one that you'll
see sometimes is let's say we had a,
I'm gonna touch a file
called my-new-program.
Let's say I wanna make
that file executable.
What you can do is sudo chmod +x,
my-new-program, like that.
And it's just going to go ahead and
add the executable ability
to all permissions, right?
So now if I go in here, you'll see that my
new program here has an x permission for
each one of those so it makes it so
anyone can execute it.
By the same token,
I can come in here and say -x and
it'll take away that x for everybody.
And same diff with like you
could do maybe like +w for
everybody and now everybody can write.
Where did I go?
I guess that just adds it for
the user in the group, but there you go.
So mostly you'll see a pro plus x, right,
to add executable permissions
to something or take it away.
For the most part, I just do the the one
that I was showing you before sudo chmod,
our user equals blah blah blah
because I can remember that and
I don't have to go look up the math for
it every single time.
But I wanted to show you the other
ways because you will definitely
see them in Stack Overflow answers.
Questions?
Permissions makes sense?
Cool.
It's something like that knowledge I
showed you, if I was able to teach it
to you in I don't know 30 minutes or
something like that.
That's probably taken me like
seven years to really understand
everything that I taught you which is
just positively shameful to admit but
I just never went and researched it.
I just kind of like osmosed
it over seven years.
So you're already way ahead of where
I was about, I don't know last week.
No, I'm just kidding.
Maybe like I said,
like seven years in my career.
The question is,
is when you cat out this Etsy password,
what are all the various different values?
So let's talk about you
have your Ubuntu here.
I think one of these this 1000 and
this 1001 I think these are user IDs,
right, because you can refer to
a user by their ID or by the name,
by the same token, I think the 1000 and
the 1001 I think those are group IDs.
I don't know what this Ubuntu is honestly.
You can see there that
Brian doesn't have one.
I don't know what the x is.
This one is their home
directory /home/ubuntu and
the /bin/bash is the login shell.
So like whenever you say,
hey log me in as Ubuntu, run this.
So for example,
you'll notice that Brian's login shell
is a different shell it's I
think this is called ash.
I wonder if I can, man sh, it's dash,
see I don't even know what that is.
So it's a different shell still.
So for example,
you'll notice that your tab completions
we're not working as Brian.
That's because you're actually
running a different shell.
It's very, very similar but it's stripped
down and less powerful than bash.
So that's why some of these have like
false and no login is won't allow you to
log in as these users,
they're not interactive users.
For that x and for the Ubuntu here,
you'd have to go look up that cuz I
don't actually know what those are.